Title: Brothers, household financial markets and saving rate in China---A Summary
Author: Chen Zhou
Category: Economics
Tags: economics, china, paper
Date: 2016-03-11 15:08:39

The Journal of Development Economics published a paper[^1] on China's
saving rate written by Weina Zhou, which proposed another explanation
to China' high saving rate.

[^1]: [Brothers, household financial markets and savings rate in China](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304387814000807)

The approach that paper took is interesting. The author successfully
discovered a linkage between household financial markets and the
number of brothers in a family. It is actually not hardly to say
financial markets would have an impact on a family's saving
behavior. In a region where financial services are underdeveloped,
families have to save more to protect themselves from risks. Thus,
families would turn to their family members for help in hard times,
instead of borrowing from banks. Household financial market acts as an
alternative system where families can receive financial assistance.

However, it's seldom that a research focuses on the connection between
the number of brothers and saving rate. The author propose that the
more brothers a family have, the less pressure to supporting their
parents. The financial assistance is as well more easy to obtain. In
sum, there are two main channels the number of brothers to affecting
saving rate:

* Sharing the risks/extending borrowing limits.
* Sharing of the cost of supporting the parents.

Nevertheless, the causal relationship between the number of brothers
of a family and its saving rate are difficult to build. There are many
factors may affect the two variables at the same time (missed
variables in the econometrical model). One of them is the preference
to son which may represent a family's characteristics. If a family
prefers to son, then naturally this family tends to have more male
children, and the preference to son could be a symbol standing for
poverty and inaccessibility to financial assistance. Thus, in this
case the negative correlation between high saving rates and the number
of brothers could be spurious.

The author solved this problem by carefully selecting the sample. From
1949 to 1972, China has been experiencing a period of population
expansion. At that time there are no birth control in China and
actually the government was awarding children birth. Gender equality
also has been much improved especially in urban areas. The author just
employed the sample collected in 1949-1972 from urban China where son
preference is neglectable.

After controlling a series of other variables[^2], the paper concludes
that brothers reduce the saving rate because they share the
risks/extend borrowing limits, and share of the cost of supporting the
parents. The change in the number of brothers of households explained
38% of the increase in the household saving rate.

The last chain missing in the induction from the number of brothers to
high saving rate in China can be filled by the changing of demographic
structure. The group of families having more brothers is shrinking
after 1972. The aggregate saving rate in China is dominated by small
families with high saving rates.

[^2]: Basic controls: Siblings, female, age, age squared, marital
	status, years of education, household income and city
	dummies. Detailed backgrounds: mother education, father education,
	number of people in households, communist party membership and
	send-down dummy. Children information: number of children,
	children age group dummies. Housing information: housing dummy,
	value of mortgage and value of housing. Number of parents
	deceased, parents living together dumy and presence of male
	children.
