Title: Fixed Point Theorem and Walrasian Equilibrium
Author: Chen Zhou
Category: Economics
Tags: mathematics, economics
Date: 2016-03-04 09:47:22

In Economics, we describe a market at the state of *Walrasian
equilibrium* if every individual's demand is satisfied, and every
product supplied is consumed. In other words, there are no excess
goods in this market.

Mathematically, we describe an individual $i$'s demand as a
function of price vector $\mathbf{p}$ and this person's income $I^i$

$$\mathbf{x}^i = \mathbf{x}^i (\mathbf{p}, I^i).$$

The notation $\mathbf{x}^i$ represents a set of products an individual
demands after maximizing his or her utility.

To simplify the problem, we suppose there are no production in this
market. The products to exchange in this market are all endowments
originally belonging to individuals. The endowment of a person is
actually the person's income. Thus, every individual is subject to an
income constraint that the value of a person's whole purchasing must be
smaller than the value of a person's initial endowment.

Suppose an individual's endowment can be represented by
$\bar{\mathbf{x}}^i$, then the budget constraint can be described as

$$\mathbf{p} \mathbf{x}^i = \mathbf{p} \bar{\mathbf{x}}^i.$$

Therefore, an individual $i$'s income (budget constraint) is
$\mathbf{p}\bar{\mathbf{x}}^i$, the demand function for this person
can be rewritten as

$$\mathbf{x}^i = \mathbf{x}^i (\mathbf{p}, \mathbf{p}\bar{\mathbf{x}}^i).$$

With the help of notions defined above, *Walrasian equilibrium* can be
stated more formally as an allocation of resources and an associated
price vector, $\mathbf{p}^*$, such that

$$ \sum_{i=1}^m \mathbf{x}^i (\mathbf{p}^*, \mathbf{p}^*\bar{\mathbf{x}}^i)
	=
	\sum_{i=1}^m \bar{\mathbf{x}}^i,$$

where the summation is taken over the $m$ individuals in this exchange
economy. The left side of this equation represents all of the demand
in this market, the right side is all the supply.

Walrasian equilibrium exists if there is a set of prices which satisfy
the following conditions

$$ \sum_{i=1}^m \mathbf{x}^i (\mathbf{p}^*, \mathbf{p}^*\bar{\mathbf{x}}^i)
	=
	\sum_{i=1}^m \bar{\mathbf{x}}^i
	\quad \text{or} \quad
	\sum_{i=1}^m \mathbf{x}^i (\mathbf{p}^*, \mathbf{p}^*\bar{\mathbf{x}}^i)
	-
	\sum_{i=1}^m \bar{\mathbf{x}}^i = 0
	\quad \text{or} \quad
	\mathbf{z}(\mathbf{p}^*) = 0.
$$

If there is an excess or shortage in some goods, the price vector
would change. For example, price set $\mathbf{p}_0$ changes to
$\mathbf{p}_1$. This process can be captured in a function $f(x)$ such
that

$$\mathbf{p}_1 = f(\mathbf{p}_0) = \mathbf{p}_0 + k \mathbf{z}(\mathbf{p}_0),$$
where $k$ is a positive constant.

Here the (Brouwer's) fixed point theorem steps in to help us achieving an
equilibrium price. Because the function $f(x)$ is continuous, there
must be a fixed point such that $\mathbf{x} = f(\mathbf{x})$.

If we let $\mathbf{p}^*$ represent the fixed point, we have

$$\mathbf{p*} = f(\mathbf{p}^*) = \mathbf{p}^* +
k\mathbf{z}(\mathbf{p}^*).$$

Thus $\mathbf{z}(\mathbf{p}^*) = \mathbf{0}$, there are no excess
goods. $\mathbf{p}^*$ is the equilibrium price vector. The existence
of Walrasian equilibrium is then proved.

More rigorous proving can be found in
[here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walras'_law).
