Title: TIL: Strands of Literature about Comparative Economic Development
Author: Chen Zhou
Category: Economics
Tags: economics
Date: 2016-02-28 17:55:03

There are mainly six strands of literature explaining the vast
differences in living standards across the globe.

* Geography. Jones (1981)[^1], Diamond (1997)[^2], and Pomeranz
  (2000)[^3]. Empirical researches along this strand: Gallup, Sachs, and
  Mellinger (1999)[^4] and Olsson and Hibbs (2005)[^5].
* Institutions. North and Thomas (1973)[^6], Mokyr (1990)[^7], and Greif
  (1993)[^8]. Empirical researches: Hall and Jones (1999)[^9]; La Porta et
  al. (1999)[^10]; Rodrik, Subramanian, and Trebbi (2004)[^11]; and Acemoglu,
  Johnson, and Robinson (2005)[^12].
* Colonialism. Sokiloff and Engerman (2000)[^13], and Acemoglu, Johnson and
  Robinson (2005)[^12].
* Ethnolinguistic fractionalization: Easterly and Levine (1997)[^14] and
  Alesina et al. (2003)[^15].
* Sociocultural factors: Weber (1930)[^16] and Landes (1998)[^17]; Empirical
  researches by Barro and McCleary (2003)[^18]; Tabellini (2008)[^19]; and
  Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales (2009)[^20].
* Human capital formatio: Galor (2011)[^21]; Empirical research by Glaeser
  et al. (2004)[^22]

Among them, the factors, colonialism and ethnoliguistic
fractionalization, are both considered as a part of
institution. Therefore, we can say that there are at least three
strands of literature trying to analyze the economic difference among
the globe.

Final words, this post is mostly adopted from a paper, *The "Out of
Africa" Hypothesis, Human Genetic Diversity, and Comparative Economic
Development*, authored by Quamrul Ashraf who has done an excellent
work summarizing these literature, whose paper also is tremendously
helpful to widen my horizon.

[^1]: Jones, Eric L.  1981. The European Miracle: Environments,
	Economies and Geopolitics in the History of Europe and
	Asia. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.

[^2]: Diamond, Jared.  1997. Guns, Germs and Steel: The Fates of Human
	Societies. New York: W. W. Nor-ton and Co.

[^3]: Pomeranz, Kenneth.  2000. The Great Divergence: China, Europe,
	and the Making of the Modern World Economy. Princeton, NJ:
	Princeton University Press.

[^4]: Gallup, John Luke, Jeffrey D. Sachs, and Andrew
	D. Mellinger.  1999. “Geography and Economic Development.”
	International Regional Science Review 22 (2): 179–232.

[^5]: Olsson, Ola, and Douglas A. Hibbs.  2005. “Biogeography and
	Long-Run Economic Development.”  European Economic Review 49 (4):
	909–38.

[^6]: North, Douglass C., and Robert P. Thomas.  1973. The Rise of the
	Western World: A New Economic History. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
	University Press.

[^7]: Mokyr, Joel.  1990. The Lever of Riches: Technological
	Creativity and Economic Progress. New York: Oxford University
	Press.

[^8]: Greif, Avner.  1993. “Contract Enforceability and Economic
	Institutions in Early Trade: The Maghribi Traders’ Coalition.”
	American Economic Review 83 (3): 525–48.

[^9]: Hall, Robert E., and Charles I. Jones.  1999. “Why Do Some
	Countries Produce So Much More Output Per Worker Than Others?”
	Quarterly Journal of Economics 114 (1): 83–116.

[^10]: La Porta, Rafael, Florencio Lopez-de-Silanes, Andrei Shleifer,
	and Robert W. Vishny.  1999. “The Quality of Government.” Journal
	of Law, Economics, and Organization 15 (1): 222–79.

[^11]: Rodrik, Dani, Arvind Subramanian, and Francesco
	Trebbi.  2004. “Institutions Rule: The Primacy of Institutions
	over Geography and Integration in Economic Development.” Journal
	of Economic Growth 9 (2): 131–65.

[^12]: Acemoglu, Daron, Simon Johnson, and James
	A. Robinson.  2005. “Institutions as a Fundamental Cause of
	Long-Run Growth.” In Handbook of Economic Growth. Vol 1A, edited
	by Philippe Aghion and Steven N. Durlauf, 385–472. Amsterdam:
	North-Holland.

[^13]: Sokoloff, Kenneth L., and Stanley
	L. Engerman.  2000. “Institutions, Factor Endowments, and Paths of
	Development in the New World.” Journal of Economic Perspectives 14
	(3): 217–32.

[^14]: Easterly, William, and Ross Levine.  1997. “Africa’s Growth
	Tragedy: Policies and Ethnic Divisions.”  Quarterly Journal of
	Economics 112 (4): 1203–50.

[^15]: Alesina, Alberto, Arnaud Devleeschauwer, William Easterly,
	Sergio Kurlat, and Romain Wacziarg. 2003. “Fractionalization.”
	Journal of Economic Growth 8 (2): 155–94.

[^16]: Weber, Max.  1930. The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of
	Capitalism. Translated by Talcott Parsons and Anthony
	Giddens. London: Allen and Unwin.

[^17]: Landes, David S.  1998. The Wealth and Poverty of Nations: Why
	Some are so Rich and Some so Poor.  New York: W.W. Norton and Co.

[^18]: Barro, Robert J., and Rachel M. McCleary.  2003. “Religion and
	Economic Growth across Countries.”  American Sociological Review
	68 (5): 760–81.

[^19]: Tabellini, Guido.  2008. “Institutions and Culture:
	Presidential Address.” Journal of the European Eco- nomic
	Association 6 (2–3): 255–94.

[^20]: Guiso, Luigi, Paola Sapienza, and Luigi
	Zingales.  2009. “Cultural Biases in Economic Exchange?”
	Quarterly Journal of Economics 124 (3): 1095–131.

[^21]: Galor, Oded.  2011. Unified Growth Theory. Princeton, NJ:
	Princeton University Press.

[^22]: Glaeser, Edward L., Rafael La Porta, Florencio
	Lopez-de-Silanes, and Andrei Shleifer.  2004. “Do Institutions
	Cause Growth?” Journal of Economic Growth 9 (3): 271–303.
