Title: TIL: User Categories
Author: Chen Zhou
Date: 2016-02-18 17:00
Category: Programming
Tags: programming, todayilearned, english

Suddenly I have an impulse to write a text editor for myself, because
I want to customize Emacs, which is what I am using for text work, to fill my
need. However, even though I am fond of lisp and willing to write
lisp, Emacs lisp is not for me. I don't feel comfortable with it,
compared with Racket in which I always try to implement my ideas.

Text editor is not a trivial project. Writing an editor will involve
many sophisticated programming skills which for the time being I am
short of.

After some searching, I found a book dedicated to implementing a text
editor whose name is
[*The Craft of Text Editing*](http://www.finseth.com/craft/craft.pdf). The
generous author uploaded the book onto the Internet in many formats.

Surprisingly, the opening chapters are about software design instead of
heading straight to the implementation. So, out of my expectation
I have learned a little high-level thinking about programming.

From the author's view, user can be classified by two dimensions:

* Amount of experience;
* Type of experience.

Each dimension consists different types. By the amount of experience,
a user can be identified as

* Neophyte who barely know what a computer is. For a more general
  case, a person can be called as a neophyte in some fields if he or
  she have few experience in these fields. Talking about Economics, a
  lot of people can be seen as neophyte, they barely know what
  Economics is.
* Novice who have used a computer before. This concept makes me think
  of the people who hear and read news about Economics, and talk about
  it with friends and colleagues, although their thoughts about
  Economics usually sounds ridiculous to experts.
* Basic users are like novice users, only more so. Similarly, a "basic
  user" in Economics may have read several popular books which are
  dedicated to spread scholar thoughts. However, their understanding
  may still remain superficial.
* Power users know one or more application programs thoroughly. In the
  Economics case, a "power users" have received proper education in
  Economics, can understand economists' policy recommendations in a
  professional way.
* Programmer-level users understand the theory of programming, write
  programs. Every person who makes it obtaining a scholar career can
  be treated like a "programmer-level users", because he or she can
  not only understand economy professionally but also can criticize
  other scholars' opinions in a constructive way.

The other dimension involves the type of experience. Actually, this
concept widens my vision more than the one above. According to the
author:

> This type of experience scale is more like a collection of baseball
> cards. A user can collect the experience types (cards) in any
> order, and two people with the same number of experience types
> (cards) may have no experience types (cards) in common.

Following this analogy is an insight which may sound obvious
to some people, but is striking for me:

> The experience types do not necessarily carry over: experience gained
> on one type of system may or may not prove useful on
> another. Actually, experience gained on one system may make it
> more difficult to learn another.

In the Economics field, different schools with opposite ideology,
liberal or conservative, argue all the way along the 20 century since
Keynes ascended with his *General Theory*. If a scholar trained in a
liberal school, he or she would probably stand against the
conservative school, which is the case that experience gained on one
system may make it more difficult to learn another.
