Title: Linear Gradient in CSS
Author: Chen Zhou
Date: 2016-02-23 19:50
Category: Programming
Tags: programming

The last post I made uses a feature provided by Pandoc's footnotes
extension. Accordingly, I have to modify the theme in this blog to
present new contents properly.

The unexpected trouble is that Pandoc uses `hr` tag to separate
footnotes from the main article. Fortunately, Pandoc put all footnotes
in a `section` with attribute `class="footnotes"` so I can configure
it independently without mixing with other `hr` tags.

The ideal result is a short line, about a third of the text width,
placed between footnotes and the main article, and aligned to the
left. However, I could not find an obvious way to align it (maybe
using `float`?), I chose to hide the `hr` line from near the middle to
the end by making its color the same with its background. This is
achieved with the help of `linear-gradient` function.

The CSS `linear-gradient` function takes two groups of arguments.

* The first group specifies the gradient line, from which position to
  which corner.
* The second group is a list of color stops.

After some research the CSS code for `hr` looks like this:

```css
section.footnotes hr {
	border: 0;
	height: 1px;
	background-image: -webkit-linear-gradient(left, #c4c3bd, #fdf6e3, #FDF6E3);
	background-image: -moz-linear-gradient(left,#c4c3bd, #fdf6e3,  #FDF6E3);
	background-image: -ms-linear-gradient(left, #c4c3bd, #fdf6e3, #FDF6E3);
	background-image: -o-linear-gradient(left, #c4c3bd, #fdf6e3, #FDF6E3);
}
```

The syntax for `linear-gradient` needs more consideration to function
properly across web engines. More information about this can be found
[here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/linear-gradient).
