Title: TIL: Difference between `right of=` and `right=of`
Author: Chen Zhou
Date: 2016-02-20 14:40
Category: Programming
Tags: todayilearned, programming, latex, tikz

In LaTeX, to build a flowchart, there are a bunch of tutorials out there,
usually they use `\node`, which have property `draw, rectangle, text width, max
height` and so on, to paint a box as a procedure.

The problem here is that "nodes" in `tikz` should be specified with their
positions, otherwise they will cluster together turning into a mess. Some of
tutorials use `right of=` to locate each box, `node distance` to spread them
properly. For example:

```latex
\begin{tikzpicture}[auto, node distance=1cm]
  \node (a) {A};
  \node[right of= a] (b) {B};
\end{tikzpicture}
```

However, this approach have some drawbacks.

* The distance between nodes is not calculated based on their borders, instead,
  it is based on their central points.
* The node distance, both horizontal and vertical, are specified with one
  number, which is a big trouble when we want to set them respectively.

The tikz package `positioning` comes to rescue, which provides a `and` command
to specify `node distance` with two values. Also, this package provides a new
set of commands to place boxes relatively, which count distance not start from
the central but the border. Therefore, the example above becomes like this.

```latex
\begin{tikzpicture}[auto, node distance=1cm and 2cm]
  \node (a) {A};
  \node[right=of a] (b) {B};
\end{tikzpicture}
```

Of course, to use these commands you should include the tikz library
`positioning` via `\usetikzlibrary{positioning}`.
