Title: TIL: Homogeneous and Homothetic Production Functions
Author: Chen Zhou
Date: 2016-02-22 15:01
Category: Economics
Tags: economics, todayilearned

I am so confused for a long time since the concept of homogeneous and
homothetic functions show up here and there in the text book I'm
reading.

Homogeneous function seems to be just an plain mathematical concept,
nothing spectacular about Economics involved. Wiki says:

> A function is said to be _homogeneous_ of degree $n$, if given any
> positive constant $k$, $f(kX_1, kX_2) = k^nf(X_1,X_2)$.

From my old thoughts, this definition is identical to what a
_homothetic_ function is defined. After more studying on the concepts,
their difference becomes clear.

> Homothetic functions are functions whose
> [marginal technical rate of substitution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marginal_rate_of_technical_substitution)
> is homogeneous of degree zero.

In a two-dimensional diagram, the
[isoquant](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isoquant) of homothetic
functions have a special property. Along all rays coming from the
origin, the slopes of the isoquants will be the same.

Therefor, homothetic and homogeneous functions are rarely the same,
although homothetic functions are usually of the form $F(h(X_1, X_2))$
where $F(y)$ is a monotonically increasing function, and the function
$h(X_1, X_2)$ is a homogeneous function of any degree.[^1]

[^1]: As this [wiki page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Production_function#Homogeneous_and_homothetic_production_functions) says.

Alter all, the concept of homothetic is used to describe a group of
production functions whose marginal rate of technical substitution are
homogeneous of degree zero. On the other hand, homogeneity is just a
general concept in Mathematics.
