Title: TIL: Wealth Does not Pass Three Generations
Author: Chen Zhou
Category: Economics
Tags: economics, todayilearned
Date: 2016-02-24 13:05:36

As an old Chinese saying goes, wealth does not pass three generations.
Even though I have been hearing this saying, I never put more thoughts
on that. Today, a thread on
[Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/4786lr/eli5why_is_the_kondratieff_cyclefamilies_losing/)
reminds me of this saying again.

The figure in this Reddit shows that nearly 80% wealthy families lose
their fortune within 3 generations. I doubted this number, so I
searched it online. The result turns to be that the source of this
number may refereed to the president of wealth consultancy The
Williams Group, Roy
Williams. [CNN](http://money.cnn.com/2014/06/25/luxury/family-wealth/)
posted an article based on his information, which said

> Nearly 60% of the time a family's money is exhausted by the children
> of the person who created the wealth. In 90% of the cases it's gone
> by the time the grandchildren die.

An expert explained in that article that

> the biggest reason family fortunes are squandered is because the
> people who built the wealth do not pass along clear instructions on
> how to handle the money after they're gone. That often leads to
> bitter infighting among surviving family members, and an eventual
> loss of fortune.

This is not a convincing explanation for me. The second generation
who have more resources to build skills about maintaining wealth should
not in a large percent lose their parents' fortune.

The thread in Reddit which introduce me the question contains a
compelling explanation:

> Everyone is trying to stereotype each "generation", but the biggest
> reason is inheritance. Each generation the family assets are split
> between more and more heirs.

This can be one of the candidates to the truth. More researches are
needed to discover relating studies in Economics, which may inspire my
studying.
