Title: TIL: Configure FoxyProxy working with Shadowsocks
Author: Chen Zhou
Date: 2016-02-17 18:00
Category: Others
Tags: todayilearned

Since I am living in China where the foreign Internet accessibility is limited,
I have to pay extra money for some services to reach out to certain websites
banned by the authority. I have been using
[shadowsocks](https://zh.wikipedia.org/zh/Shadowsocks) for several months to get
rid of the Great F1re Wa11.

Until today I finally figured out how to configure FoxyProxy to automatically
switch proxy whenever necessary. For those websites that can be normally
visited, the connection should not go abroad through a proxy server which
hinders the data transfer.

The tool I am using--FoxyProxy--is available both for Chrome and Firefox. In
this case, I use Firefox for demonstration.

Install FoxyProxy to the browser, right click the button shown besides the
address bar after the installation finished, then a window would prompt out, in
which there is a button to create a new proxy server. Click that button, a
window with three tag pages would show up. Switch to the normal configuration
tag where the name and color can be specified. In the detail tag, choose
configure proxy server manually, we can also use a automatic configuration,
which either through WPAD or PAC, but the related instructions for them will not
be included in the blog.

Set host or IP address to `127.0.0.1` or `localhost`, port to `1080` or any
number in shadowsocks setting. Also, do not forget to check out the socks v5
box. Leave account and password parts to be empty.

To use shadowsocks, a shadowsocks client should be running, which can be
downloaded from its
[GitHub repository](https://github.com/shadowsocks/shadowsocks/releases). Although
the source code is removed from that repository, the author still keeping
updating its release page.

Find a shadowsocks server provider, get an account and server IPs. Configure the
client to connect to the proxy server.

Go back to Firefox, switch on FoxyProxy, choose `all URLs through proxy`, if we
can visit Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and so on, then we succeed.

After that, we are assured that the proxy works. The next step is to add URL
templates for proxy, instead of making all connection via proxy.

Enter the proxy server configuration window, the third tag is URL templates, in
which you can add templates by universal matches or regular expressions. Also,
there is a fast add button beneath the FoxyProxy icon button which can be
activated in the server configuration window.

That's how I bypass Great F1re Wa11 in Firefox using shadowsocks with the help
of FoxyProxy.
